Attributes consist of a globally unique Attribute ID and a
(value)[Value-Type.md], which may be either a hard value (set to a value) or
constructed through [Functions](Function.md). [Pragma](Pragma.md) contain them,
[Links](Link.md) have them, and changes to them can signal the execution of
bound [Actions](Action.md).  They are the core behind the DRS model.


## Dynamic vs. Hard

A "hard" Attribute acts like a variable in a traditional programming language.
An [Action](Action.md) or external event may set this to a different value.

Dynamic Attributes have their values generated by a [Function](Function.md) that
may take other attributes as inputs.  These are reactive functions, in that any
changes to the Function inputs results in an immediate change to the Attribute.



## Globally Unique ID

Attributes have a globally unique ID.  This ID has a set of associated
meta-data.

* **Identifier** - the actual globally unique string identifier used when
 referencing the corresponding value in [Pragma](Pragma.md) and
 [Links](Link.md).
* **Single Type** - all Attributes must have the same
 [Value Type](Value-Type.md).
* **Commit Join Function** - when multiple changes from [Actions](Action.md)
 happen in the same simulation engine cycle, they must be reconciled in the
 _[commit](Pragma.md#Commit Memory Model)_ phase, which is done through a
 _commit join function_.
* **Link Binding** - indicates whether this attribute binds to Pragma or Links;
 it cannot be used for both.
* **Origin** - optionally, the Behaviour Group, Plugin, or other source that has
 ownership of the Attribute can assign additional meta-data to describe the
 Attribute.  Common settings are the source of the attribute, and what it's
 used for.

Because all Attribute IDs are globally unique, the engine makes a simplifying
assumption by declaring that all [Pragma](Pragma.md) have every Attribute ID;
unassigned Attribute Values have a default value of null.


## Change Signals

When the value of an Attribute on a [Pragma](Pragma.md) changes value, it
signals this change to all bound listeners.

* [Action](Action.md) - signals sent to an Action will schedule the Action to
 run after the value propagation phase completes.
* [Function](Function.md) - all Functions which have the specific bound
 Attribute value as input will execute in the value propagation phase to
 recalculate the value, which may in turn signal other dependent Attributes.


## Attributes on Links

A Link reference on a [Pragma](Pragma.md) may have bound Attributes.  These
allow for specific queries to be performed against the Links.
